It's the same image, with narrowed spaces as this one.
It's the same image.
This is the visceral peritoneum of the stomach, left leaflet.
Parietal peritoneum, visceral peritoneum, hepatic, right.
Lesser omentum, gastro-hepatic, left leaflet.
You get the idea.
Same diagram that I will show you in another dimensional space.
Caroline, what is this leaflet?
Right gastric visceral peritoneum.
Now, I would like you to be very precise.
Right leaflet of the gastric visceral peritoneum.
Are you situated there now?
I take these two tissues.
I turn back.
And you see that.
I take that again and put it back here.
On the right leaflet of the mesogastrium appears an invagination.
A fold in this peritoneum that goes up.
The image that is here, it goes up to here.
That is to say, this small pouch, this small washcloth that goes up, we cut it.
Now, I'll explain a little more.
Next to it, I have my liver.
I am strong.
I am developing.
I am growing.
What makes an organ develop?
It's that it receives nourishment.
And if it receives nourishment, that means it receives information through a vascular field.
I'm developing and there, okay, I have to develop that way.
Because I'm being pushed that way.
The liver becomes an engine.
for the organization of the hepato-gastro-pancreatico-duodeno-splenic cavity.
I have a hepatic movement that organizes the gastric movement,
which will organize the movement of the splenic spleen,
and behind, pancreatic, but by the movement here, duodenal.
It's a clockwise movement.
Now, you have...
the celiac trunk is a center of vascular organization where the hepatic movement will
orient itself, organize itself in a space via the coronary stomachic artery and a very important artery behind it, the splenic artery, so
you imagine
I am the stomach is here next to it I have the liver which all of a sudden
It grows.
I take up all the space.
But since I have a branch that nourishes me less from there, but much more to the right,
I develop.
My stomach is there.
And at the same time, I have this little pocket here.
And all of a sudden, I turn.
And that causes this little pocket that was there to go behind, like this.
It develops behind the stomach.
And this little pocket pushes, makes a rotational movement of my stomach
which was initially like this.
And all of a sudden, my stomach makes a movement like this.
I have this retro-gastric pouch which is called the omental bursa
with the entrance gate called the vestibule,
Winslow's hiatus, the retro-gastric pouch, my spleen, behind my pancreas, and it comes like this here. And then this pouch continues, passes under the stomach, passes over the transverse colon. Don't forget, I have four leaflets, they will rejoin to form the greater omentum in front. Above I have my heart, I have my bronchi.
will rejoin to form the greater omentum in front. Above I have my heart, I have my bronchi.
The lung is my liver.
You must consider it as the engine of the peritoneal cavity in its definitive space.
It is its growth to the right that organizes this level.
But just before, I had this small retro-gastric pouch on the right leaflet of the visceral peritoneum of the stomach
which appears between two arterial levels through a living space.
Let's see this, not on a plane as I showed you here, but we will see this on a transverse plane.
This movement where I have only all the endodermal tissue, with my lungs developing,
and this movement that organizes itself. I have this movement here.
But I have my bronchi here. I have my developing heart which is quite thick.
This will orient my left main bronchus. By this movement, it moves to the left.
It pushes my left lung and creates a space for my heart to descend,
it tilts and develops on a ventricular plane, more precisely,
with a fulcrum on my aortas, on my atrium, to develop on the left.
My stomach is underneath, it turns in this developmental phase.
Behind my stomach here, I have my spleen opening, there is a congestion that occurs.
What do I have behind? I have my pancreas which was there first.
There are two pancreases, but one that follows the movement and begins to aspirate behind as well, which is the most posterior.
Then we will see that there is also all the organization, afterwards, duodenal, colic that will organize itself in relation to that.
The heart is very centered, but afterwards, there is an opening, what we call the looping of the heart,
which opens in this space, organized by my liver, in its developmental phase, to the right.
I see my liver and all of a sudden, this liver develops very strongly to the right.
And that causes this tilting on its axis of my stomach to the left.
The right vagus nerve will become posterior and the left vagus nerve will become anterior.
We see that this rotational movement of the stomach brings a retro-gastric pouch here.
My omental bursa is here.
which is drawn, it's the little pocket that goes behind,
posterior parietal peritoneum, my anterior parietal peritoneum
and there I have the continuity of the development of my right leaflet
of the gastric visceral peritoneum
and all of these leaflets here meet
at the lower part of my stomach, here,
to form all of these tissues. And what will all of these tissues form? The greater omentum. It is a tissue that is part of the right leaflet of the gastric visceral peritoneum and the back of the leaflet, since the meeting of this greater omentum, it is a meeting of these four tissues, which will meet at the lower part, below the stomach and above the transverse colon. There, it will pass behind. and below, so if you want, it does this, so we see this large omental apron which is connected at the same time to my spleen, to the back of the stomach, to the pancreas in relation and the development of my liver in relation to the hepatic artery which will develop, what is this pouch for? it is the articulation to free a stomach. It is the most important space to free a stomach. It is an adaptation pouch. Your stomach makes movements like this. It is a sliding surface. You have at the same time a serosa, a longitudinal musculature, you have a circular, oblique musculature. Just these three layers here, longitudinal, circular, oblique, bottom of the stomach, it... churns and needs in its function, in its metabolism, in its churning of this posterior space to function well. This large tissue here, which knows, it is peritoneum. Remember, it is a membrane that contains information from all organs through its liquid medium, its interstitium, but at the same time it is tissue. contains messenger information of type B, T, M lymphocytes, with a possibility of movement and displacement in the peritoneal cavity. That is to say, it is also a lymphoid organ. If you have an infection, you have a small sigmoiditis or appendicitis, it is a living tissue, it will come here, it will bring friends, we will clean. the thing, it moves. When you become aware of this tissue which is very superficial in fact, that you have it in resonance, you have in your hands all the omental bursa, you have all the knowledge of the pancreas, you have the spleen, you have the stomach, you have the liver, and there is a whole movement, a whole history in this tissue. Where is its embryonic fulcrum of the greater omentum? On the right leaflet, on the omental bursa and on the leaflet in and this meeting here its fulcrum it is we will be in the lesser curvature Winslow's hiatus the anterior gastric peritoneum the stomach the posterior gastric peritoneum which corresponds to the anterior wall of the omental bursa the omental bursa what we call the retro gastric pouch of the omental bursa the posterior wall of the omental bursa, the pancreas. Everything is organized towards the aorta. And so, towards the umbilical cord. The aorta, here. And so, what is the great fulcrum? The pillars. You must understand that all the houses, here, are all oriented.
gastric peritoneum
posterior which corresponds to the anterior wall of the omental bursa
omental bursa what we call the pouch
retro gastric of the omental bursa the posterior wall of the omental bursa
of the omentum, the pancreas. Everything
is organized towards the aorta. And so,
towards the umbilical cord.
The aorta, here. And
so, what is the great fulcrum? The pillars. You must understand
that all the houses, here, are all oriented.
and organized around the aorta.
Now, if we give an even more precise point,
we come back here, we say, look, the aorta passes here.
And if we want to be even more precise,
all the organization of what is called the celiac trunk,
with the coronary-stomachic artery, the proper hepatic artery and the splenic artery.
Super important neurological ganglia, semilunar, etc.
So it's really a crossroads of information that will be found there.
It's as if I were on a vascular plane held there.
But the global movement will return towards the umbilical cord.
Why? Because a little lower, I have another axis,
but which is more in relation with the superior mesenteric artery and with the colic system.
That is to say, this, we could say that it is all the omental bursa.
And a little lower, it will be all the organization of the colic frame which will end on
the umbilical cord, whose vestige will be Meckel's diverticulum.
We will find fulcrums, where I look for the vascular fields, primitive, vitelline, omphalomesenteric, to restart
the dynamics up to the cerebral plane. on an electrical, vascular plane. Treating a stomach means giving it back this sliding space, as well as this adaptation to its esophagus and diaphragm, but also the freedom of this omental bursa and also its immune plane, on a simple plane of the greater omentum. This begins from the 28th day, once I have the integration of my external coelom into an internal coelom. An old man, we...
on an electrical, vascular plane.
Treating a stomach means giving it back this sliding space,
as well as this adaptation to its esophagus and diaphragm,
but also the freedom of this omental bursa
and also its immune plane, on a simple plane of the greater omentum.
This begins from the 28th day,
once I have the integration of my external coelom into an internal coelom.
An old man, we...
we will find his cecum in his pants.
Rotation continues throughout life, the heart continues throughout life.
We are always in motion.
At first, it's whoosh, and then pss.
So this process never stops.
So understand that the pharyngobasilar membrane,
it's also a mechanical exchange technique.
There are different ligamentous relationships,
pterygomandibular, stylohyoid.
So you're starting to understand all this little relationship here.
Between the muscles, hyoid, stylohyoid, omohyoid, thyrohyoid.
The importance of releasing, that's where we see that the hyoid becomes a fulcrum,
which is in function of the integration of information both from swallowing, from chewing, how all that integrates into the good quality of the stomach.
That means the stomach also starts with...
Good chewing.
Saliva is the stomach's friend.
Because digestion doesn't start in the stomach.
It starts directly in the mouth.
That means that everything that is in it too, tonsillitis, pharyngitis,
can be related to the gastric plexus, to the mesenteric plexus.
So the importance of taking...
care of this stomach.
The stomach needs, for its proper function,
a free diaphragm,
but all free diaphragms.
The esophagus, don't forget, acts like a cord
that stretches in this mediastinal space.
So, compensations will occur
through the diaphragm, through your spinal column
and through these small Rouget muscles
that will learn to relax,
to release, to work this space.
You shouldn't...
Sometimes, don't treat the stomach right away.
But you have to remove, detoxify, re-inform the terrain.
Try, if possible, to clear the nociceptive stimuli.
You see what the angle of His is.
It is an angle that expresses intragastric tensions.
We can try to work on it.
We had the person sitting and I asked them to gradually go and reopen to start becoming aware of the Rouget muscles.
of Juvara, of this tension, try to free the esophageal space.
Now, in this treatment, I advise you to come back
and add this retro-gastric pouch,
to free the ribs, to free the adaptation space of this stomach.
If you look at this stomach, there are zones that we call
the cardia zones, the fundus zones, the corpus zones,
at the level of the antrum, the pylorus,
and we see that there are slightly different cells.
different, which produce hormonal substances, liquid substances.
Gastrin is also found in the peritoneum of the lesser pelvis.
And very frequently, problems at the level of the stomach, it is a concentration, an imbalance between this hormonal plane that you will find at the level of the stomach,
but which is actually influenced by the lesser pelvis and which will move up to the plane of the stomach and which will destabilize the...
quality of the stomach. Treating a stomach means freeing the woman's lesser pelvis
or freeing the prostate. In fact, these are rebalancing in the peritoneum
of the lesser pelvis that restore gastric function, the subtle function of gastrin. So we
are on molecular planes. A woman who has had an abortion but whose electrical density
is not released, has not grieved and so there is still like a
preconceptual fixed. It's as if there was still a symbolic entity that was not
released. Sometimes, you have to lead people to almost perform a ritual to give back to the Earth
what the universe wanted to give them. The pylorus, it's better to manipulate it two hours after
the meal, because that's where it's freest, that's where the chemical information,
physiological... You have this relationship with the splenic pedicle, with the artery...
with the pancreas, look at the importance of this relationship with the spleen, with the tail of the
pancreas and with the left kidney and the adrenal gland, this is really a zone
and what do I have
behind there between the two, what is it, I have my retro-gastric pouch